Authors of Eggdrop
Last revised: July 27, 2010

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This file documents the developers, major contributors, and groups who've
developed and maintained Eggdrop. A full list of contributors can be found
in the file THANKS. Contributor information for specific versions of Eggdrop
can be found in the corresponding doc/Changes files.

Eggdrop was originally written by Robey Pointer. Versions 0.6 through 1.0o
and 1.1alpha-lincoln through 1.1alpha-grant were developed by Robey from
December 1993 through February 1997. As of version 1.0n, Robey relicensed
Eggdrop under the GNU GPL. Robey's relicensing also allows for earlier
versions of Eggdrop to be licensed under the GNU GPL. After version
1.1alpha-grant, Robey gave up his position as Eggdrop's maintainer.

Version 1.0p was a maintenance release put together by Wade in March 1997
made from Eggdrop community patches. Later 1.0 series bugfix and maintenance
releases were made by other Eggdrop community members.

Eggdrop 1.1 development continued after 1.1alpha-grant with significant
contributions from many Eggdrop community members. While it would be
impossible to include a full list of contributors for each version in this
file, below is a list of some of the major contributors and core Eggdrop
community during 1.1alpha and 1.1.x:

  Beldin, ButchBub, cmwagner, dk, dtM, EraseMe, Ernst, Lefty, LuckyStar,
  poptix, Robey, Wade, Wild

Around version 1.1.1, Beldin took on Robey's former role of lead developer
and maintainer. Beldin and many other developers later regrouped as
eggdrop.org and developed Eggdrop up through version 1.3.23.

Below is a partial list of major contributors and core Eggdrop community
members during 1.2 and 1.3 up through version 1.3.23:

  Beldin, BoGuS, ButchBub, Daklop, dk, dtM, easton, Ernst, KingKurly, Kirk,
  Melvan, |mmortal, NC, poptix, Q, Raistlin, smok, tdmarti, TheGhost, vod,
  wheely, zarni

After version 1.3.23, Beldin decided to discontinue development of the 1.3.x
branch and instead focus solely on 'Eggdrop2' development.

Unfortunately, 'Eggdrop2' took more resources to compile and run than 1.3.x.
Most users also found it difficult and sometimes impossible to compile
because it lacked the portability of previous versions due to having been
written in C++ instead of C. Because of its limitations, users continued to
favor the more established 1.3.x codebase.

After Beldin and a number of other developers publicly stated their intent
to discontinue all development of 1.3.x after 1.3.23, a new development
group began to form made up of other Eggdrop community members. This group
eventually organized as eggheads.org.

Because of the large number of outstanding bugs in 1.3.23 and community
interest in continuing 1.3.x development, a new version was created from the
numerous patches that had piled up after work on 1.3.x had stopped. This new
version was released as 1.3.24i. The 'i' stood for independent and was
intended to show that this release was independent of the "official"
development group. The 'i' was dropped for the 1.3.25 and later releases.

Below is a list of developers and contributors for version 1.3.24i released
by eggheads.org on March 5, 1999:

  arthur2, Bass, Beige, Crotale, Daemus, deadgrrrl, Dude, guppy, Lobo^Loco,
  Niggurath, paralyse, Shayne, slennox, TheUnknown, TiTi, Tothwolf, vod,
  Whicked

Eggdrop development after 1.3.24i has continued under eggheads.org up through
versions 1.4.x, 1.5.x, 1.6.x and currently 1.8.x.

Below are lists of major contributors and core Eggdrop community members for
versions 1.3.24i-1.3.28, 1.4.x, 1.5.x, 1.6.x and 1.8.x.

1.3.24i-1.3.28:

  arthur2, Crotale, Cybah, Daemus, drummer, dw, Eule, Fabian, guppy, Jason
  Ede, John`, Michael, Mixter, poptix, Tothwolf

1.4:

  arthur2, drummer, dw, Eule, Fabian, guppy, Jason Ede, Lucas, mortmann, rtc,
  Sup, toot, Tothwolf, Wiktor

1.5:

  drummer, Eule, Fabian, G`Quann, guppy, Jason Ede, Sup, Tothwolf, Wiktor

1.6:

  Abraham, BarkerJr, bryand, darko``, drummer, dw, Eule, Fabian, guppy,
  ITE, Kirben, mortmann, Noyga, poptix, PPSlim, pseudo, simple, [sL], stdarg,
  Sup, SuperS, Sven, TaKeDa, thommey, Tothwolf, Wcc, Wiktor, Wingman

1.8:
  Cizzle, Geo, mortmann, pseudo, simple, thommey

See also: THANKS, doc/Versions, doc/Changes

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (C) 1997 Robey Pointer
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2019 Eggheads Development Team
