Boring legal stuff

The Eggdrop bot is Copyright (C) by Robey Pointer. As of January 1997,
Eggdrop is distributed according to the GNU General Public License.
There should be a copy of this license in the COPYING file. If not,
write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth
Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. As of Eggdrop 1.3.28, all changes
made by the Eggheads Development Team to the Eggdrop source code and any
related files are Copyright (C) by Eggheads Development Team. The source
code will still be distributed according to the GNU General Public
License as Robey Pointer did in the past. Releases previous to 1.0m were
made using a different licensing scheme. You may, at your option, use
the GNU General Public License on those versions (instead of the license
packaged with them) with Robey's blessing. For any versions bearing a
copyright date of 1997 or later, you have no choice - you must use the
GNU General Public License.

The files match.c, net.c and blowfish.c are exempt from the above
restrictions. match.c is original code by Chris Fuller and has been
placed by him into the public domain. net.c is by Robey has placed it in
the public domain. blowfish.c is by various sources and is in the public
domain as well. All 3 files contain useful functions that could easily
be ported to other applications.

Tcl is by John Ousterhout and is in no way affiliated with Eggdrop. It
likely has its own set of copyrights and what-nots.

There is no warranty, implied or whatever. You use this software at your
own risk, no matter what purpose you put it to.
