Last revised: April 20, 2020



TWITCH MODULE


This module _attempts_ to provide connectivity with the Twitch gaming
platform. While Twitch provides an IRC gateway to connect with it's
streaming service, it does not claim to (and certainly does not) follow
the IRC RFC in any meaningful way. The intent of this module is not to
provide the full spectrum of management functions typically associated
with Eggdrop; instead it focuses around the following key functions:

-   Logging of general and Twitch-specific events (raids, blocks, bit
    donations)
-   Tracking userstate and roomstate values
-   Adding Tcl event binds for a number of Twitch events

This module requires: irc.mod

Put this line into your Eggdrop configuration file to load the twitch
module:

    loadmodule twitch

and set net-type "Twitch" in your config file.


LIMITATIONS

There are a few things you should know about how Twitch provides service
through the IRC gateway that affects how well Eggdrop can function: *
Twitch does not broadcast JOINs or PARTs for channels over 1,000 users.
This renders tracking users on a channel unreliable. * Twitch does not
broadcast MODE changes for moderator status. This (mostly) renders
tracking the status of users infeasible. (See Tcl below section for
workaround) * Twitch stores bans on its servers (and does not accept
MODE +b), making the Eggdrop ban list (and exempts/invites) mostly
useless * Twitch does not allow clients to issue MODE +o/-o commands,
preventing Eggdrop from op'ing users through the traditional method

... but the good news is, we have extended much of the Twitch
functionality to Tcl!


TCL API

That last section was a little bit of a downer, but don't worry, we
added a TON of functionality to the Tcl API. This module adds binds for
the following Twitch events:

-   CLEARCHAT
-   CLEARMSG
-   HOSTTARGET
-   WHISPER
-   ROOMSTATE
-   USERSTATE

Additionally, we included twitch.tcl with Eggdrop, which provides
additional functionality to track users and their status (mod, vip, etc
on a channel via a web API call to an undocumented function. This means
that the functionality of this capability is outside the control of
Eggdrop developers and could break at any time, but the current
usefulness has been judged worth the uncertainty. See the comments of
twitch.tcl for additional info on how to use this functionality.


PARTYLINE COMMANDS

This module adds the following commands to the partyline: * userstate -
Lists current userstate on a channel * roomsstate - Lists current
roomstate for a channel * twcmd - Issues a traditional Twitch web
interface command to the Twitch server (/ban, /block, /host, etc)

  Copyright (C) 2020 Eggheads Development Team
