.\" Originally by Robey, redone by rtc
.\" * 1999-11-08 rtc       A line wasn't displayed
.\" * 2000-10-07 Fabian    Updated and slightly re-organised.
.TH EGGDROP 1 "October 2000" "EGGDEV" "IRC goodies"
.SH NAME
eggdrop \- an IRC robot program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eggdrop
.RB [ options ]
.RB [ config-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I eggdrop
is a fully-functional Internet Relay Chat robot program.  It
is stand-alone, and does not require the
.I ircII
client.  It currently supports all known IRC nets, including EFnet,
IRCNet, Dalnet and Undernet.
.PP
By itself,
.I eggdrop
does nothing.  It needs a config file (usually named after your bot)
to tell it how to behave.  The
config file is actually a script written in
.I "enhanced TCL"
(TCL with extra commands and variables defined by eggdrop).  A sample
TCL config file with describing comments for each option,
.IR eggdrop.conf.dist ,
is given with the distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
.I eggdrop
options include:
.TP
.B \-h
displays a list of command-line options.
.TP
.B \-v
displays the current version of eggdrop, as well as any patches that have
been loaded.
.TP
.B \-n
.I eggdrop
normally automatically moves into the background upon loading.  This
option makes it stay in the foreground and display console entries
to the console terminal.
.TP
.B \-nc
Like
.B \-n
the bot won't move into the background.  However, the console terminal
will display channel status every 10 seconds, instead of log entries.
.TP
.B \-nt
As above, the bot won't move into the background.  The console terminal
simulates a local DCC chat which never ends (as long as the bot is
running).  The nickname used for the DCC chat is "HQ" (a master).
.TP
.B \-m
The first time you run
.IR eggdrop ,
you need to use the -m option, to
put eggdrop in "userfile creation" mode.  Follow the directions
and it will build a user record database, with you listed as
an 'owner' (person who runs the bot).
.SH SIGNALS
.I eggdrop
handles the following signals:
.TP
.B SIGCHLD
This signal is ignored by
.I eggdrop
and can be used to determine whether it's running or not.
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Depending on die-on-sigterm being set to 0 or 1 in the config file,
.I eggdrop
will save the user file or die.
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Depending on die-on-sighup being set to 0 or 1 in the config file,
.I eggdrop
will rehash or die.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B EGG_LANG
This variable can be set to the language you want
.I eggdrop
to speak to you. It defaults to English, but German and French are
supported, too.
.TP
.B EGG_LANGDIR
Specifies the directory where all your language files are stored.
The default is ./language
.SH FILES
.TP
.I eggdrop.simple.conf
sample configuration file, containing only the
.B basic options
needed by an average user.
.TP
.I eggdrop.advanced.conf
sample configuration file, containing more
.B advanced options
useful to users who have very specific needs and who have reached a
certain level of experience with eggdrop.
.TP
.I eggdrop.complete.conf
sample configuration file, containing
.B all available options
in eggdrop.
.TP
.I scripts/weed
TCL script to sort eggdrop userfiles
.TP
.I scripts/botchk
shell script suitable for crontab job
.TP
.I scripts/*.tcl
some example TCL-eggdrop scripts
.SH "SEE ALSO"
irc(1),
ircII(1),
tclsh(1),
ircd(8)
.PP
There is extensive
.B online documentation.
Once you get the bot running, open a DCC chat with it, and send it a DCC
message like:
.IP
/msg =MyBot .help
.PP
In addition, the files in the
.B
doc/
sub-directory provide
.B detailed information
about how eggdrop works and how you can use it
.B to the limits.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Robey Pointer, the Eggheads Development Team and various
other people. See the
.I doc/AUTHORS
file for who contributed and the
.I doc/UPDATES*
series of files for further details.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bugs@eggheads.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1994 Robey Pointer
.br
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 Eggheads Development Team
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" end of man page

